You've got an i9, an RTX 4090, DDR5
memory, but in COD, your FPS drops
midfight, your aim feels floaty, and no
YouTube tweak guide has fixed it. If
you're using an ASUS motherboard with an
Intel CPU, there are hidden BIOS
settings that are killing your FPS and
consistency. And I'll show you how to
fix them right now. So, first off, this
guide works best for Asus Z690 and Z790
motherboards, Intel 12th, 13th, or 14th
gen CPUs, and Call of Duty players who
want better frame time stability, lower
input delay, and smoother aim field.
First things first, we're going to make
sure that our motherboard is on the
latest version of the BIOS. And in the
order to do that, we're going to type MS
Info32 into Windows. It's going to open
up system information. You're going to
click baseboard product, and you're just
going to copy this down. So, I have an
ROG Maximus Z790 Apex Encore, and this
is like a top tier motherboard for Z790.
You might have a similar motherboard
that starts with the same letter, but
just keep this in mind. And we're going
to open up Google Chrome and search this
motherboard up. So, as you guys can see,
I searched up the motherboard, and it's
going to be the first link right here.
Um, this is what the motherboard looks
like. All you want to do is click
support on this page. Click driver and
tools, and then you're going to click
BIOS and firmware. Make sure to click it
twice if it doesn't pop up with anything
because this website is a bit buggy. All
right. So, as you guys can see, there is
an update from 2025 on 519 and I'm on an
update from 2023. So, what I'm going to
do is I'm going to download this update
just like so. It's going to open up
right here. And in order for us to
update the BIOS, we're going to either
need a USB stick where we're going to
put this file into or we can use this
method that I'm about to show you guys.
So, we're going to basically effectively
make a fake USB with our system drive in
order to pretty much just skip having to
get a USB stick. So, type create on your
search bar. It's going to pop up with
create and format hard disk partitions.
We're going to click on that. Then, you
want to scroll down and find your drive.
So, for me, it's going to be the C drive
right here. I'm going to rightclick and
click shrink volume. And we just need
around 99 megabytes of space. Press
shrink. It's going to create this space
right here. Just right click, new simple
volume. Next, next. And next. File
system. This is the most important part.
Just set this to FAT 32. This is going
to mimic a USB stick. So, we don't have
to get a USB stick and plug it in. So,
just type that. Select that. Volume
label. You can just label this BIOS in
order to actually know which drive
you're going to put the file onto. So,
I'm going to press next and finish. Now,
if I open up File Explorer and go to
this PC, you can see that we're going to
have a partition labeled BIOS right
here. This is where we're going to put
the BIOS file for the update into. So,
go to downloads, right click on your
BIOS file, and click extract files and
press okay. You might get this, you
might get this weird error if you're
using sevenzip. Just ignore that. Double
click this folder, highlight all of
this, copy this PC BIOS, and just paste
it into here. Then that's pretty much it
for preparing your PC to get do a BIOS
update. Now, we're going to actually get
into the BIOS and do the full process of
optimizing our system from the BIOS. So,
to access your BIOS, all you want to do
is press settings and we're going to go
to system. We're going to scroll down
and go to recovery. You're just going to
click advanced startup and press restart
now. Just press restart now and then
just give it a second. It's going to
restart and put you on the advanced
recovery screen. This is just an easier
way to access BIOS. All right, so we're
going to click troubleshoot right here.
Advanced options and UEFI firmware
settings right here. And then just press
restart. All right, everyone. So once
you're in the BIOS, we're going to go to
tool on the top right. You might have to
go to advanced mode if you're in easy
mode. So if your screen looks like this,
just go advanced mode on the bottom
right right here. Go to toolus easy
flash 3 utility and we're going to
scroll down and try to find the
partition that we created. So just find
one that looks like this. It's going to
be 95 megabytes or just 100 megabytes.
Just find it. You can look through all
of them and just find the file that
begins with the motherboard name just
like so. So you're going to choose it,
press yes, and press yes again. And then
you're going to keep pressing yes until
it pretty much starts updating your
BIOS. Then once it updates the BIOS,
it's going to restart and update a
couple more things. Then once it's done,
it's going to pop up with this
screenshot right here that I'm going to
show you. Press F1 and continue watching
this video. So once your BIOS is updated
and you're back in BIOS, it's going to
look like this. All you want to do is go
to advanced mode. You can press F7 or
just press it on the bottom right. We're
going to go to extreme tweaker at the
top and AI overclock tuner. You want to
always set this to
XMPP1. And that's all you have to do for
this step. Then scroll down. Intel
adaptive boost technology. Disable that.
Assus multi-core enhancement. I
recommend setting this to enabled.
Remove all limits. Just like so. And
scroll down. Go to DRAM timing control.
And here's where we're going to do a few
memory tweaks that actually provide us
with extra performance from our RAM
without doing anything crazy. So, all
we're going to do is scroll down. DRAM
RS to delay L. I recommend setting this
to 12. This is a very conservative
value. You can set this to eight, but 12
is going to work for almost every RAM
stick that's watching this video, and
it's going to provide you with zero
issues. The next one could always be set
to eight. Then we're going to scroll
down. DRAM refresh interval. I recommend
setting this to
32767. However, just want to make
something clear. If you have absolutely
zero case fans in your case for whatever
reason, or you have terrible air flow in
your case, I don't recommend setting
this setting to anything, just set it to
auto and leave it alone. But for us
people with fans in the front, on the
top, and the back. That means you have
good air flow. Air's coming in from the
front of the case and, you know,
escaping through the back or with the if
you have a water cooler, it's escaping
through the fans of the water cooler.
Then scroll down. Drama 4 act win time.
You can always set this to 32. That's
all you have to do for this page. Now,
we're going to go back and we're going
to scroll down and go to thermal
velocity boost. And thermal velocity
boost is pretty much useless. This
basically just helps you boost a little
bit higher if your temperatures are
better. But this causes a lot of
problems with stability, and this is
pretty much why some Intel CPUs just
kind of damage themselves. So, we're
going to disable pretty much everything
here because we don't need it. Then go
back. We're going to go to Tweakers
Paradise and we're going to disable
every setting that has spread spectrum
in the name just like so. Then go back.
We're going to disable ring down bin and
scroll down. We're going to disable BCK
aware adaptive voltage. That's going to
be pretty much it for this page. Then
we're going to go to advanced at the
top. Go to platform MIS configuration.
You pretty much want to disable every
single setting in this page. This is all
just power saving features for your
graphics cards and anything connected
through your
PCIe ports. So, just disable everything
in here because it's power saving
options and this is a gaming PC. Go
back, go to CPU configuration, and
scroll down to the bottom. Intel
virtualization technology. If you're
playing Call of Duty, you do not need
this. So, disable it. For 12th
generation Intel only, I recommend
setting your active efficient cores to
zero and leaving hyperthreading enabled.
So if you have a 12900 K,
12700K, or something along those lines,
just do what I just said. Leave your
active efficient cores on zero and leave
hyperthreading enabled. However, if
you're on 13th gen or 14th gen Intel, I
recommend active efficient cores setting
it to all and hyperthreading setting it
to disabled. and that's going to be the
best layout for 13th and 14th gen. Then
we're going to go to CPU power
management control at the bottom and
we're going to boot. We're going to set
boot performance mode to turbo
performance. We're going to disable
Intel speed step. We're going to disable
Intel speed shift technology. We're
going to leave turbo mode enabled and
we're going to disable CPU cstate and
disable thermal monitor. Then press
escape twice to go back. We're going to
go to system agent configuration and
just disable BTD if it's already
enabled. This is related to
virtualization. Then go back. We're
going to go to PCI subsystem settings.
We're going to make sure above 4G
decoding is enabled as well as resize
bar support because this boosts FPS in
Call of Duty. Then go back. We're going
to scroll down to the bottom and go to
onboard devices configuration. And this
is pretty much where you can disable
stuff that you don't use, like for
example, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or USB audio.
If you don't use those, you can just set
these to disabled. And you will get
lower latency just because there's less
devices running on your PC. So, for
example, I don't need USB audio. I don't
need USB power delivery and soft off
state, and I don't need Wi-Fi or
Bluetooth. Now, if you want to disable
the RGB on the motherboard when the
system is in working state, you can set
this to a off. This is going to disable
all the RGB on your motherboard. Then
scroll down to the bottom. And if you
have as media USB controllers like me,
these are just extra USB controllers
that you most likely aren't using. And
if you are using them, just switch your
USB ports around and you don't have to
use them. So, I recommend disabling
these because you don't want extra USB
controllers running on your system. It's
going to add a lot of latency. So, I'm
going to disable both of these. I don't
need them. Then, we're going to go to
tool at the very top. We're going to go
to ASUS Armory Crate and disable this.
Asus Armory Crate is a ton of bloatware.
It adds so much background pulling and
background processes, then that affects
input timing. So, we don't want this.
Then what we're going to do is if you
want to save this as a profile in your
BIOS just in case for whatever reason
your BIOS decides to reset it itself
randomly or you had to reset your BIOS
by pressing the clear CMOS button on the
back and you want to just restore the
settings that you did with this video
without wasting any time. Go to sus user
profile and profile name. You can name
this uh Zilly video for example. And
then you can just save this on whatever
profile that you want. So for example,
we'll save it on profile 4. and then
press enter and press yes. As you can
see, profile 4 status now says Zilly
video. So, if I wanted to load this
profile up in the future, I'm going to
change load from profile to number four
and press enter. It's going to tell me,
do you want to load these settings? Just
press yes on that. And that's pretty
much it. Now, we can just go to exit and
click save changes and reset and then
press okay. And your PC is going to take
a little bit longer to boot up this
time, especially if we enable XMPP. And
that's just due to RAM training. So,
just give it a second. be patient with
it and everything should be good to go.
These tweaks don't just raise your max
FPS, they improve your 1% lows, reduce
your frame time spikes, and reduce your
input latency. So now I'm going to
launch Call of Duty and show you guys
the results in the benchmark from what I
got. So as you can see, these are my
settings for Call of Duty. I'm using
full screen exclusive with everything on
off and unlimited with reflex low
latency on on. Quality is set to pretty
much minimum with my render resolution
at 100%. My fidelity FXCAS at 100% and
everything else is on off or very low
just like so. So now I'm going to run
the Call of Duty benchmark, show you
guys the results. So as you guys can
see, I'm getting around 231 average FPS
on the benchmark and my average FPS on
my CPU is around 323 and my low fifth
percentile is 222. So, this is without
any overclocking, guys. And this is just
with BIOS optimizations from this video.
If you guys want even more performance
out of your system, you're going to be
overclocking your system. So, that's
pretty much how you can get these
results right now. So, we've helped
thousands of players fully tune their
PCs, BIOS, drivers, Windows, memory, and
input stack all done live. So, if you
want it done right, book your session
now as they.net. I'm trusted by top tier
players and we have a 100% money back
guarantee if it doesn't feel better. But
that's going to be pretty much it for
this video. Hope you guys enjoyed it and
I'll see you guys